---
title: Farine_2017
---

Farine, D. R., A. Strandburg-Peshkin, I. D. Couzin, T. Y. Berger-Wolf, and M. C. Crofoot. 2017. “Individual Variation in Local Interaction Rules Can Explain Emergent Patterns of Spatial Organization in Wild Baboons.” _Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences_ 284 (1853): 20162243. [https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2016.2243](https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2016.2243).

---

> -   To quantify variation among individuals in their neighbourhood sizes, we modified a framework based on location prediction to find the number of neighbours that provide the most accurate predictions. The basic framework works as follows (see also electronic supplementary material, figure S2):(1) For each individual, we start by randomly selecting 1000 observations (initial times) in the data. (2) We then identify the individual's _k_ nearest neighbours at each initial time.   (3) Using the GPS data from the same set of _k_ nearest neighbours identified in step 2, we calculate their mean location (centroid) each second (time lag) for up to 600 s after the original observation time. (4) We use this centroid to predict the location of the focal individual at each second, and calculate the prediction error as the distance between this location and the actual location from the GPS data recorded for that individual.  (5) We then find the optimal value of _k_ (range 1–24) that generates the lowest mean prediction error at each time lag. We define an individual's _neighbourhood size_ as the mean of these optimal values of _k_ across all time lags.

## [Dominance](dominance.md)

> The alpha male was determined via direct behavioural observations of his consistent priority of access to food, displacements of other individuals in the troop, and his receipt of submissive behaviour from other individuals. However, because the troop we studied was not habituated to human observers and baboons were not individually identifiable, we could not collect sufficient observations to reconstruct the rest of the [dominance](dominance.md) [hierarchy](hierarchy.md) through direct behavioural observation. Instead, an approximate [dominance](dominance.md) ranking for all troop members was determined by extracting approach–avoid interactions from the movement data using an automated procedure, and ranking the members of each sex separately based on an Elo score analysis. Although our inferred [dominance](dominance.md) [hierarchy](hierarchy.md) is consistent with our observations, our analyses also address patterns of spatial positioning related to age–sex class differences. These are a good indicator of an individual's general [dominance](dominance.md) within the troop, with all males being dominant over all females.

> Candidate approach–avoid events were saved as .kml files, displayed in Google Earth, and evaluated by an observer blind to the identities of the interacting individuals (M.C.C.). Interactions that were determined to be very likely to be displacements (_N_ = 290) were subsequently used to calculate each individual's Elo score [[48](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/doi/full/10.1098/rspb.2016.2243?rss=1#RSPB20162243C48)]. Elo score-based ranking is a standard approach that computes scores based on the wins and losses among pairs of individuals. The basic principle of this ranking algorithm is that wins against competitors who are much more highly ranked result in a larger increase in score than wins against closely ranked competitors. Individuals that repeatedly win contests (in this case displace others) will gain high scores, whereas the scores of those that are displaced will drop (as a result of losing these contests). Thus, higher scores mean that individuals are more dominant (they were the ‘displacer’ more often than they were ‘displaced’). Because Elo scores are dependent on the order at which events occur (i.e. the scores are updated based on the current difference in the two interacting individuals’ values), we recalculated individuals’ Elo scores 1000 times while randomizing the order of events each time, and took the mean of these Elo scores to determine an individual's [dominance](dominance.md) rank. We note that the alpha male (2427) determined from this procedure was consistent with the individual we had identified as the alpha male through direct behavioural observation.